in this video let us learn the insert rear operation
and its implementation
The insert rear operation will insert the given element at
the end here
We need to handle two
Main cases the first one is when the deque
empty and the second one is when the deque already
has elements
let us discus case by case
First let us take an empty
deque and insert Element 100
at rear so created new node with the given Value
Here the rear point of is null which means the
deque is empty
So in this case we need to set both front
and rear points to the first node
So make both front and rear point to node 100
that's it
Next let us discuss how to insert at the rear
when the deque already has some elements
so let us take this deque
It already has two elements
nodes
10 and 20 let us
Insert a new element 30 at the rear
First let us create the new node with the given
value 30 and then we need to do the following
things first make next
of rear points to the new node and then make
previous of new node points to the rear Pointer
and finally make new node as rear
And that's it
so the logic of insert rear operation is very simple
First create the new node with the given value using
get node function
If rear is null make both front and rear points
to the new node
Otherwise insert the given node at the rear by using the
following steps
Make next of rear points to the new node and
then make previous of new node points to the rear
and finally make the new node as rear
And that's it we have implemented the insert rear
function
In the next video we will learn how to implement
the delete front function.